Come back in this video we are going to check out Ellis.
And Ellis is the short form for else if and if you know any other programming languages you already
know what else does and what elevates us.
But if not then I'd be very careful because we're going to use a different approach in using IF statements.
So let's go ahead and check out this example.
So we have this example where we have the currency which is for example euros.
And then I want to check if the currency is double equal.
I'm comparing is equal to dollar.
Then I would like to print something like US dollar.
So for now if I execute that as you can see nothing happens.
But what if I want to check other currencies as well not just the euro one not just a dollar one I want
to check out others.
So I'm going to have an else here.
So if the currency is not a dollar then I can go ahead and have an else and in here I'm going to check
again if currency is going to be yen.
And I have yen prepared here.
I don't know what combination on the keyboard would be to get yen but I have it prepared here so if
currency is yen then please write something like Japanese yen
then I need to check another else if I want to check another currency.
So let's say I want to check if the currency is for example euros.
Then please go ahead and write something like print euro.
Well then there could be another currency that I want to check.
So let's say I wanted to check if the currency is a tie but and again I'm going to use a prepared sign
here bought and then I'm going to print something like tie bought and as you can see if I execute that
it executes euro.
But there is something to consider here.
As you can see the more I get the more currencies I'm checking or in general the more things I want
to check the more indentions I need and the more weird.
I'd say look my code looks.
So in this case I have an if statement then in the else I check the next if in the else I check the
negative.
And while that is valid code and it totally works and it's totally fine and it might people be people
who prefer this style it's usually not the best way to do it the better way is to use elif.
And what else does is it checks if a additional condition is true.
And let's just see this particular example in an olive example.
So instead of using ELSE I'M CHECKING L..
If so Elif currency is un then please go ahead and do that.
The same here.
Else if.
Or if currency is going to be Euro then please print euro and the same here.
So let me get rid of the in or not required characters and I'm going to go back.
So that would be the Elif version.
So it's exactly the same result that we get.
But that looks a lot cleaner and it's a lot easier to read.
So we have this if statement checking out currency is equal to dollar.
And if that's the case.
Print dollar.
Else if.
Or elif.
So if this is not the case then please go ahead and check that.
And if it's true then execute this code.
If it's not true then check the next one and execute the code if it's true or if the next one is true
and so forth.
But there is one thing to consider.
That's really important because if this statement here is true then that statement will never be executed
neither that no nor that.
So if one of them is true the following ones within the same statements are within the same connection
will not be executed at all.
So in our case let's say I have dollar or euro here and I have another one in between me who run it
like that and I'm going to say you wrote to here and if I execute that euro two will not be printed
out.
Even though this statement is as true as that one and that is because it's getting out of the whole
if statement as soon as one of the statements is true that is a very very important concept because
if I do things like this later on.
I'm going to check for currency here within the if statement and execute that as you can see that works
easily unify like that.
Now that works perfectly right.
Because this is a completely new statement but this one here is completely connected.
And as you can see you simply use this keyword Elif and it's tense for else if and that's a general
approach for else.
So once again what's the advantage of using this approach.
Over that one here it's mainly the readability.
And secondly it's the correct style.